- [Instructor] If you want the most detailed information
regarding a specific Java release, the best place to find it
is on the Oracle JDK Release Notes page.
Here you can find the release notes
for the most recent versions of Java.
So let's hop in.
We can take a look at the JDK 10 release notes.
Once we navigate into JDK 10,
you're going to see the three releases,
the initial release, and then the two maintenance releases.
Let's take a look at the initial release,
so we'll click on the one at the bottom.
And then within the Documentation section,
you're going to see a link to the release notes.
And then finally, we arrive at the Release Notes page.
This page lists all the changes
that you can expect to find within this Java version.
And it can be useful
for identifying potentially breaking changes
in your application.
The best way to identify those breaking changes
is to look at the removed features and options section.
Here you're going to see
what was removed from the language with this version,
and it's going to alert you to any potential API changes
that may break your application.
So it's always a good idea to review this section
and look for those areas
that may be applicable to your application.
Now that we know where to find information
on the most recent Java versions,
let's talk about some of the most specific issues
that will disrupt your migration from Java 8 to Java 11.
The first change we'll take a look at is the module system.
Most Java developers understand how Java is organized.
Fields and methods are placed into classes
and classes are placed into packages.
The module system, which was introduced in Java 9,
adds another level to that hierarchy,
allowing packages to be placed into modules.
Applications using the module system
specify exactly what modules they will require
in order to access them.
This dependency information
can be used to build lightweight runtimes
instead of running an application
on the entire Java platform.
This helps with the security of the application
by reducing the attack surface,
and we also get some benefits
by reducing the resource usage of the application.
It's important to note
that just because you migrate to Java 9 or Java 11,
it doesn't mean you have to use the module system.
You can choose whether or not to opt in
to the new module system.
When the new module system was being placed into Java 9,
it was determined that access
to JDK internal classes and packages would be restricted.
This means that if your classes have references
to the original sun packages, they may not compile.
Restricting access to JDK internals
created a bit of a leap from Java 8 to 9.
So the illegal-access JVM option was introduced.
And initially, it's set to permit,
so that's the default for Java 9.
When set to permit,
the option disregards encapsulation measures at runtime
that restrict access to JDK internals.
This is going to allow already compiled code
and code that requires reflective access
to the JDK internals to continue to function.
Now it's important to note, this is a runtime option,
so it's not going to benefit you at compile time,
and your code will not compile
if you attempt to access JDK internals.
By default, the option remains set to permit in Java 11.
So if you're using an LTS version,
you don't need to be concerned about this until Java 17.
Now within the documentation,
it does indicate that deny will be the default value
in the future for the option.
And this will eliminate that runtime access
to JDK internals.
So not a bad idea to set this option to deny
to see how your application will behave,
and you can get ahead of any migration issues in the future.
We're going to skip over Java 10.
It only removed some infrequently used methods
and classes from the language that involves security.
There were a lot more major changes introduced in Java 11
that we're going to discuss.
Those changes were the removal of several Java EE
and CORBA related modules from Java Standard Edition.
So these modules are no longer available in the JDK,
and moving forward,
you'll need to obtain them through some other means,
whether that's through a Java EE server implementation,
or you get the dependency from a build system like Maven.
So that is a look at some of the most disruptive changes
you may encounter when migrating to Java 11.
Don't feel too overwhelmed,
or like you need to read every line of the documentation,
there's some excellent tools that we're going to explore
that can help you quickly discover
and resolve these migration issues.